# SPU

[SPU](https://github.com/secretflow/spu) (Secure Processing Unit) is a compiler and runtime suite accelerating the use of secure multi-party computation (MPC) in machine learning workflows.

The SPU project is designed with the following objectives in mind:

- **Ease of adoption.** The SPU compiler works with [**XLA IR**](https://www.tensorflow.org/xla) output. Reuse your existing ML programs in **JAX/Flax, Tensorflow, or PyTorch** with minimal modifications to run in a MPC topology.
- **High performance.** SPU employs a variety of novel optimization techniques specifically designed to overcome the extra computation overhead introduced by MPC.
- **Provable security.** The SPU runtime provides built-in implementations of state-of-the-art MPC protocols, such as ABY3 and Semi2k-SPDZ.

:::{admonition} Read our paper!
:class: tip

Our paper was accepted to [USENIX ATC '23](https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc23/presentation/ma). Download it [here](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/atc23-ma.pdf).
:::

:::{admonition} 编者备注
:class: notes dropdown

本文档库使用 SPU 作为新版文档的样板和草稿。

在文档中会穿插“编者备注”卡片（比如这个卡片）来解释文档的书写和技术细节。这些卡片和 SPU 本身没有关系。
:::

:::{admonition} 编者备注：首页设计
:class: notes dropdown

文档首页大量参考 [Django 文档首页](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/)。
:::

## First steps

New to SPU or MPC? Start from here.

- **From scratch:** [Overview](./intro/overview.md) | [Installation](./intro/install.md)
- **Your first MPC application**
  - [Part 0: Introduction](./tutorial/index.md)
  - [Part 1: The classical workflow](./tutorial/part-1-classical-workflow.md)
  - [Part 2: The compiler](./tutorial/part-2-compiler.md)
  - ...

## Recipes and guides

These how-to guides show how SPU fits into concrete scenarios. Use them to see what SPU can do, and jumpstart your own MPC applications.

- **Private set intersection (PSI)**: [How to run a streaming PSI]() | ...
- **Private information retrieval (PIR)**: [How to run a PIR query]() | ...
- ...

For a full list of recipes, visit [](./recipes/index.md).

## Developing with SPU

MPC represents a paradigm that is significantly different from a traditional ML workflow. Follow these guides and best practices to achieve the best performance and security.

- **Debugging and performance**: [Simulating a MPC topology]() | [Profiling]() | [Tracing]() | [Simulator API reference]() | ...
- **Pitfalls**: [Overview]() | [Fixed-point arithmetic]() | ...
- ...

## The compiler

SPU compiles your ML program into "instructions" (called Intermediate Representation, or IR) that are optimized for MPC. Read these to better understand the SPU compiler.

- **High-Level Operations**: [Introduction to PPHLO]() | [Type system]() ...
- **Compiler optimization**: [Overview]() | [Feature reference]() | [Developer notes]() | ...
- **Just-in-time compilation**: [Overview]() | ...
- **XLA and JAX support**: [XLA implementation status]() | [JAX NumPy operator status]() | ...

## The runtime

The runtime manages network, I/O, and executes the IR generated by the compiler.

- **Overview**: [SPU as a virtual device]() | ...
- **Networking**: [Overview]() | [Config reference]() | ...
- **I/O**: [Overview]() | [Config reference]() | ...
- **Optimization**: [Overview]() | [Runtime optimization reference]() | [Developer notes]() | ...

## Security

SPU provides built-in implementations of state-of-the-art MPC protocols. Read these to understand their differences and implications, and choose the right protocol for your application.

- [Security overview]()
- [Introduction to threat models]()
- **Protocols**: [Overview and comparison]() | [Protocol reference]() | ...
- ...

## Extending SPU

- [Trying out a new frontend]()
- [How to implement a new MPC protocol]()
- ...

## Contributing

- [Reporting a security issue privately]()
- [Reporting an issue]()
- [Development]()
- [Testing]()
- [Documentation]()
- ...

## Indexes, glossaries, and references

- [Glossary of terms](./glossary.md)
- **API references**: [Python API]() | [C++ API]() | [PPHLO]() | [Protobuf]()
